DOCS-5812 - MS 365 Ops update (#354)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/microsoft/microsoft-365-ops-connector.adoc

= Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Operations Connector - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images/

Support Category: Select

Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Operations v2.0

> The Anypoint Connector for Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Operations enables integration with Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Operations Web API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Connector for Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Operations enables integration with Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Operations Web API.
```

Reviewer: GLOBALLY remove the article "the" before proper nouns that are not followed directly by a common noun object.

> This connector lets you perform these operations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This connector enables you to perform these operations:
```

Reviewer: I can't comment directly in the legacy text below (blue bar), so I will do so here:

* Consider clarifying the difference between list entry on line 17 and on line 18, or maybe combining them? "Retrieve multiple entries, including retrieval using DataSense Query Language."

* Replace "This document assumes that you are familiar with" with "Familiarity with" and "Mule" with "Mule runtime engine." Consider using the blanket "Anypoint Platform": "Familiarity with Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Operations and Anypoint Platform, including Mule runtime engine, ..."

> This connector lets you perform these operations:

Reviewer: Before this list, how about a little text that sets the audience expectation for the bulk of this deliverable, which is connecting in one of two ways: **using Design Center or using Studio**, and in each of those connection texts, configuring as one of **using OAuth 2 or OAuth Username Password**.

To use this connector with Maven, view the pom.xml dependency information in the Dependency Snippets in Anypoint Exchange.

Before starting, you need access to a Microsoft Dynamics 365 instance (online or on-premise) managed by Azure Active Directory.

== Connect in Design Center

. Click a trigger such as HTTP Listener or Scheduler.
. Select the plus sign to add a component.
. Select the connector as a component.
. Click an operation.
. Click *Click here to set it up*. 
. Specify the connection type as *OAuth 2* or *OAuth Username Password*.
+
image::microsoft/microsoft-365-ops-create-global-element.png[]
+
. Provide all other required values. For more information, see the xref:microsoft/microsoft-365-ops-connector-reference.adoc[Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Operations Connector Reference].
. If using the *Retrieve Multiple* operation, configure the Data Query URL field for the Retrieve Multiple operation. This is used by a query to retrieve data.
+
image::microsoft/microsoft-365-ops-retrieve-multiple.png[Retrieve Multiple Data Query URL field]

=== Required Parameters for the OAuth 2 Configuration

> For information regarding required configurations, view the See Also section of this document

Reviewer 2: Lines 50 and 51 I'm not sure what it's saying. Is it supposed to be 2 sentences?

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field |Description
|Resource |The OAuth endpoint URL.
|Consumer Key |The app ID assigned to your app when you registered it with Azure Active Directory. You can find this in the Azure Portal (portal.azure.com). Click *Active Directory*, click the directory, choose the app, and click *Configure*.
|Consumer Secret |The app secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app. This should not be used in a native app, because client secrets cannot be reliably stored on devices. This is required for web apps and web APIs, which have the ability to store the client secret securely on the server side. You can find this in the Azure Portal (portal.azure.com).
|Authorization URL |Tenant specific OAuth2.0 endpoint; format: `+https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/oauth2/authorize+` (follow instructions presented in the previous link for specific information on how to obtain the endpoint)
|Access token URL |Tenant specific endpoint for requesting the access token; format: `+https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/oauth2/token+` (follow instructions presented in the previous link for specific information on how to obtain the endpoint).

> |Listener config |Name of the HTTP listener instance created in studio flow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Listener config |Name of the HTTP listener instance created in the Studio flow.
```

> You need login credentials to test your connection to your target resource.

Reviewer: Consider turning the Prerequisites section in all connector docs into a bullet list:
   * Access to a Microsoft Dynamics 365 instance managed by Azure Active Directory
   * Familiarity with...
   * Credentials to log in to...
   * Familiarity with the latest software requirements and compatibility information
   * For use with Apache Maven, pom.xml dependency information

Reviewer: UPDATE:
Add a bullet item for familiarity with or operations already performed in the Azure portal. We should not be documenting another company's product or user interface in our doc.

For software requirements and compatibility information, see the Connector Release Notes.

> To use this connector with Maven, view the pom.xml dependency information in the Dependency Snippets in Anypoint Exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this connector with Apache Maven, view the pom.xml dependency information in the Dependency Snippets in Anypoint Exchange.
```

Reviewer: Apache can get snippy about receiving name attribution. Best to include it at first use of an Apache component name in each topic.

> Before starting, you need access to a Microsoft Dynamics 365 instance (online or on-premise) managed by Azure Active Directory.

Reviewer: Suggest adding to a Prerequisites bulleted list, as the first item.

> == Connect in Design Center

Reviewer: Suggest a brief intro text between title and Step 1. Maybe mention the alternative connection method.

> . Click a trigger such as *HTTP Listener* or *Scheduler*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click a trigger, such as *HTTP Listener* or *Scheduler*.
```

> . Select the plus sign to add a component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the plus sign (+).
```

> . Select the connector as a component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the connector.
```
QUESTION: How is the connector presented in the UI? Is the user selecting a connector from a list, or is the user clicking an icon or selecting the term "connector" for a list? I've suggested omitting the "component" phrases above, but if there is a label specifying "Component," we should document that as such.

> . Click an operation.

Reviewer: Does this mean selecting a specific operation from a list of operations, or clicking an operation icon or label?

. Click *Click here to set it up*. 

> . Specify the connection type as *OAuth 2* or *OAuth Username Password*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Specify the connection type as *OAuth 2* or *OAuth Username Password*:
```

Reviewer: GLOBALLY end sentences or fragments that directly introduce a list , table, or graphic element with a colon.

+
image::microsoft/microsoft-365-ops-create-global-element.png[]
+

> . Provide all other required values. For more information, see the xref:microsoft/microsoft-365-ops-connector-reference.adoc[Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Operations Connector Reference].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Provide all other required values. 
For more information, see the xref:microsoft/microsoft-365-ops-connector-reference.adoc[Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Operations Connector Reference].
```

Reviewer: GLOBALLY break bullet items after the first fragment or sentence, moving required followup info to a new para.

> . If using the *Retrieve Multiple* operation, configure the Data Query URL field for the Retrieve Multiple operation. This is used by a query to retrieve data.

Reviewer: Hmm...Suggest reducing to "If using..., complete the Data Query URL field:"

If the customer is using this op, I would assume that they know what it does.
Colon points to the image.

+
image::microsoft/microsoft-365-ops-retrieve-multiple.png[Retrieve Multiple Data Query URL field]

=== Required Parameters for the OAuth 2 Configuration

> For information regarding required configurations, view the See Also section of this document

Reviewer: As a reader, I'm not sure how "required configurations" and the "authorization URL and access-token URL" are related to this parameter table. Is this the best location for these sentences? If so, can you clarify how they relate to the table, and maybe shorten them?

The second sentence is particularly problematic, because it actually contains a hidden task: steps that the audience would not be able to use unless actually in the Azure portal right now.

Reviewer: Suggest something like "The following list [because this really is more of a definition list than table material] describes the parameters necessary for the OAuth 2 configuration. For additional configuration information, refer to "See Also."

> for the Authorize access to web apps using OAuth 2.0 and Azure Active Directory link.

Reviewer: No need to specify the text of the only link in the See Also section

> To find the authorization URL and the access token URL you can go to the Azure portal, App registrations section and select the Endpoints menu.

Reviewer: At what point does the user need these URLs? Why is this not part of a user task?
See previous comments; I'm not sure that this belongs here or, if so, that it needs to be documented here as a step rather than just "Authorization and access token URLs are specified in the Azure portal."

Reviewer: UPDATE: No, this does not belong here, because these items are documented in the table/list.
Consider adding familiarity with or completed operations involving the Azure portal, which is not our responsibility to document.

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]

> |===

Reviewer: This amount of text should not be limited to a table cell. Tables are intended for scanning; for that matter, so are lists. The best format for this type of info is a description/definition list. Please refer to the Style Reference.

> |Field |Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Parameter |Description
```
"Field" is a term referring to a UI, but we are documenting the parameters, not how they appear in the UI.

|Resource |The OAuth endpoint URL.

> |Consumer Key |The app ID assigned to your app when you registered it with Azure Active Directory. You can find this in the Azure Portal (portal.azure.com). Click *Active Directory*, click the directory, choose the app, and click *Configure*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Consumer Key |The ID assigned to your app when you registered it with Azure Active Directory.
```
The rest of this "description" is outside the scope of this table, which is to describe parameters. The audience should either know its app ID already or know how to find it on the Azure portal without us documenting that portal or steps used within it.

> |Consumer Secret |The app secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app. This should not be used in a native app, because client secrets cannot be reliably stored on devices. This is required for web apps and web APIs, which have the ability to store the client secret securely on the server side. You can find this in the Azure Portal (portal.azure.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Consumer Secret |The secret that you created in the app registration portal.
```
Consider instead telling what a "secret" is, if this is new to your audience (it is to me). Is this just a password?

I'm concerned about the admonition to not use this, and the specification of requirement. The title is "required" parameters, so we should not have either of these sentences.
The stated purpose of this section is to list and define required parameters, and that is what it should do, without extra context or any hidden task information. We should not be documenting the Azure portal. If you believe that all this additional information is required, this table/list is not the best place.

> |Authorization URL |Tenant specific OAuth2.0 endpoint; format: `+https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/oauth2/authorize+` (follow instructions presented in the previous link for specific information on how to obtain the endpoint)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Authorization URL |Tenant-specific OAuth2.0 endpoint in the format `+https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/oauth2/authorize+`
```

> |Access token URL |Tenant specific endpoint for requesting the access token; format: `+https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/oauth2/token+` (follow instructions presented in the previous link for specific information on how to obtain the endpoint).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Access token URL |Tenant-specific endpoint for requesting the access token, in the format `+https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/oauth2/token+`
```

> |Listener config |Name of the HTTP listener instance created in studio flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Listener config |Name of the HTTP listener instance created in the Anypoint Studio flow.
```

> |Callback path |The URL of your app, where authentication responses can be sent and received by your app (follow instructions presented in the above link for specific information on how to obtain the endpoint).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Callback path |The URL of your app, to which authentication responses are sent and received.
```

> |Authorize path |The URL which triggers the OAuth mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Authorize path |The URL that triggers the OAuth mechanism.
```

> |External callback URL |Optional: Configure if the callback URL is not accessible directly (example: when using proxies) example format: `+http://localhost:8081/callback+`

Reviewer: Once again, something that isn't required in a section that is titled as such?

```suggestion
|External callback URL |Required only if the callback URL is not accessible directly, such as when using proxies. Example format: `+http://localhost:8081/callback+`.
```

|===

image::microsoft/microsoft-365-ops-dc-oauth2.png[]

> === Required Parameters for the OAuth 2 Username-Password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Required Parameters for the OAuth 2 Username-Password Configuration
```
First time this is hyphenated; go back and check other uses of "Username Password" and evaluate.

> For information regarding required configuration, see Authorize access to web apps using OAuth 2.0 and Azure Active Directory in the See Also section of this document.

Reviewer: ditto previous comment about this text in the OAuth 2 config. section

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===

> |Field |Description

Reviewer: ditto

|Username |Username used to initialize the session.
|Password |Password used to authenticate the user.

> |Resource |The app ID URI of the web API (secured resource). This must be the root URI, without specifying the version. Example: `+https://YOUR_ORG.operations.dynamics.com/+`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Resource |The app ID URI of the web API (secured resource). This must be the root URI, without specifying the version. Example: `+https://YOUR_ORG.operations.dynamics.com/+`
```
```suggestion
|Resource |The app ID URI of the web API (secured resource). This must be the root URI, without specifying the version: for example, `+https://YOUR_ORG.operations.dynamics.com/+`.
```

> |Client ID |The app ID assigned to your app when you registered it with Azure Active Directory. You can find this in the Azure Portal (portal.azure.com). Click Active Directory, click the directory, choose the app, and click Configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Client ID |The ID assigned to your app when you registered it with Azure Active Directory.
```

> |Client Secret |The app secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app. This should not be used in a native app, because client secrets cannot be reliably stored on devices. This is required for web apps and web APIs, which have the ability to store the client secret securely on the server side. You can find this in the Azure Portal (portal.azure.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Client Secret |The secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app.
```
ditto edits to same texts in OAuth 2

> |Token Request Endpoint |The token endpoint that is called to get the access token. Example: `+https://login.windows.net/TENANT_ID/oauth2/token+` where TENANT_ID is the Azure Active Directory ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Token Request Endpoint |The token endpoint that is called to get the access token: for example, `+https://login.windows.net/TENANT_ID/oauth2/token+` where TENANT_ID is the Azure Active Directory ID.
```

|===

image::microsoft/microsoft-365-ops-dc-oauth-username-pass.png[]

> == Connect in Anypoint Studio 7

Reviewer: ditto comment peer Connect intro

> == Install Connector in Studio

Reviewer: So...there is no parallel installation required for Design Center? Just checking....

. In Anypoint Studio, click the Exchange icon in the Studio taskbar.
. Click *Login* in Anypoint Exchange.
. Search for this connector and click *Add to project*.
. Follow the prompts to install this connector.

When Studio has an update, a message displays in the lower right corner, which you can click to install the update.

> === Configure in Studio

Reviewer: I wonder if we should add a parallel Configure topic to the Design Center section. I would be nice to have the two sections mirror each other as much as possible, if at all applicable.

> Drag and drop the connector to the Studio Canvas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Drag the connector to the Studio Canvas.
```

> Create a global element to:

Reviewer: Not necessary to create a linked list of only two items that follow directly.

```suggestion
Create a global element to configure using OAuth 2 or OAuth Username-Password configuration.
```

* <<Configure OAuth 2>>
* <<Configure OAuth 2.0 Username Password>>

> === Configure OAuth 2

Reviewer: This heading should be parallel with its peer in the Design Center section.

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===

> |Field |Description

Reviewer: ditto re "field" and list format

Reviewer: DITTO all previous edits to the same table/list text below.
Could we avoid repetition by having just one configuration parameters section that applies to both config methods?

|===
|Field |Description
|Username |Username used to initialize the session.
|Password |Password used to authenticate the user.
|Resource |The app ID URI of the web API (secured resource). This must be the root URI, without specifying the version. Example: `+https://YOUR_ORG.operations.dynamics.com/+`
|Client ID |The app ID assigned to your app when you registered it with Azure Active Directory. You can find this in the Azure Portal (portal.azure.com). Click Active Directory, click the directory, choose the app, and click Configure.
|Client Secret |The app secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app. This should not be used in a native app, because client secrets cannot be reliably stored on devices. This is required for web apps and web APIs, which have the ability to store the client secret securely on the server side. You can find this in the Azure Portal (portal.azure.com).
|Token Request Endpoint |The token endpoint that is called to get the access token. Example: `+https://login.windows.net/TENANT_ID/oauth2/token+` where TENANT_ID is the Azure Active Directory ID.
|===

image::microsoft/microsoft-365-ops-as-oauth-username-pass.png[]

> == Use Case: Accept Data and Output Into JSON

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Use Case: Accept Data and Output into JSON
```

Reviewer: This title should be followed by text that sets the scenario for this use case and explains to your audience how examining it will help them achieve their own particular goals.

As it is now written, I as a reader do not understand how I got from the title to the numbered list (why is it numbered? Is this a task or a machine process? Explain) and illustration. 

Suggest introducing the illustration, showing it, and then introducing the numbered steps shown by it.
Then consider introducing the XML syntax example that follows it, without giving it a separate heading.

. Listener(HTTP) - Accepts data from HTTP requests.
. Dynamics AX for Operations - Connects with Dynamics for Operations and executes a query to retrieve all the Customer entities.
. Transform message - Outputs the results of the Retrieve multiple operation in JSON format.

image::microsoft/microsoft-365-ops-studio-use-case.png[]

=== Use Case: XML

Paste this XML code into Anypoint Studio to experiment with the flow described in the previous section.

> 

Reviewer: NOT EDITED

</mule>
----

> Define these attributes in your properties file:

Reviewer: Is this something that the audience does AFTER pasting the XML syntax? Is this the "experiment" part? Consider a bit more narration in this section to help the bits hold together.
